---
layout: post
title:  "Coronavirus: Scare vs Cure 3.0: The Geopolitics"
author: saurabh
categories: [ Social]
date:   2020-10-24 18:05:55 +0300
image:  'assets/images/natovscsto.png'
tags: [Russia, US, India, Italy, China, France, NATO, CSTO, Putin, Trump]
---

Perception-based news has always been around us since the beginning. It becomes even more dangerous when propaganda science uses it to meet its ends. The noble cause that gave birth to science is long gone. With SARS-CoV-2, we saw a plethora of inconclusive published research making the headlines. The research published as ‘if’, ‘may’, or, ‘might’ doesn’t form the basis of scientific fact but only a hypothesis which can be later proved or disproved. Unless you're a big fan of zombie apocalyptic movies, you would realize that SARS-CoV-2 is just another flu virus that is going to be with us forever. That being said, lockdowns, masks, or vaccines won't do any good to us. It will only benefit a few pharmaceutical companies and a few handful of countries dictating terms on immigration. You are welcome to dig a little deeper with me if you are frustrated over the mask mania and absurd rules over the coronavirus scare.

In today's world, science is a mere tool used in politics. The politics in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member and ally countries is not controlled by politicians. Politicians are just pawns managed by bureaucrats. In Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) member countries, this role is still reversed. CSTO is a group of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan. Afghanistan and Serbia are their allies. The rest of the world is with NATO either as a member or as an ally. Some countries are constantly fighting to become either an ally or member of NATO. By now, you would understand that geopolitical factors are mostly controlled by NATO. When Donald Trump, a friend of Vladimir Putin, became president of the US, the bureaucrats panicked with their nerves out. This was perceived as a direct threat to NATO. Though a little help from the Wikileaks over Hillary's email scam was an added advantage to the Trump's win, Julian Assange will continue to be tried and abused by the US.

In April 2019, [during the 70th birthday celebrations of NATO in London](https://www.theweek.co.uk/104669/nato-turns-70-the-biggest-threats-facing-the-alliance), one of the major issues of migration crisis was discussed. Some European Union (EU) countries were facing serious challenges for accommodating the immigrants from the war-zone countries or elsewhere. This is also one of the major reasons why UK wanted a Brexit. Theresa May was unsuccessful in finalizing Brexit and so Boris Johnson was put to power to complete the task. In a study conducted by Royal United Services Institute (Rusi), NATO was in danger of losing power. The US president, Donald Trump, also threatened NATO that US would pull out of the membership citing the financial angle. Trump also didn't agree to the French president remark on migration crisis. Trump's impeachment plan came right after that. However, the impeachment was touted as the result of something entirely different and was based on one [whistleblower complaint](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6430351-Whistleblower-Complaint.html) which says that Trump was seeking Ukraine's aid in rigging the upcoming 2020 US elections. Trump did survive the impeachment because of the lack of evidence. 

In most cases, you’d understand that nothing is far-right or far-left. The far-left is actually a ring wing whereas the far-left tends to comply with the far-right principles. The implications of the business of politics are too naive to justify either. To understand why countries across the globe adopted nationwide lockdowns, we’d have to see what the world was like before the SARS-CoV-2 scare hit the news.

## India and Italy: The duo that needed reprise from the illegal immigration

Italy’s former deputy Prime Minister, Matteo Salvini, of the far-right League party was too harsh on [illegal immigration](https://www.politico.eu/article/matteo-salvini-italy-takes-further-steps-to-clamp-down-on-immigration/). He faced a [massive protest](https://in.reuters.com/article/italy-politics-sardines/italys-anti-salvini-sardines-take-protest-to-rome-idINKBN1YJ01D) in 2019 and since then his office is vacant. Italy’s current Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte, shared the same view on illegal immigration. He is the only prime minister to have led the right-wing and left-wing coalition governments. The growing upsurge and stopping illegal immigration could have only been stopped if nationwide lockdown becomes a norm. With the SARS-CoV-2 scare, Italy decided to impose it successfully. When the situation subsided, Italy was quick to open its borders for the tourists to not lose out on the economical front.

India on the other hand was also facing the problem of illegal immigration for years. The [amendments in the Citizenship bill](https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/protest-against-citizenship-amendment-bill/article30238956.ece) and breaking away of Ladakh from Jammu and Kashmir were their early measures to counter the problem. It soon became a problem for the government. The unrest in the minds of separatists became evident. The [Delhi riots](https://www.thehindu.com/topic/delhi-violence-2020/) that took place in 2020 was an example of what’s coming next. In March, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide lockdown on the lines of Italy to save the country from another set of nationwide riots.


## The Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China: The autocratic rule was under threat

The protests against Vladimir Putin are nothing new. These protests started somewhere in 2009 and are still an ongoing event despite the SARS-CoV-2 spread. In March 2018, Vladimir Putin got re-elected and it became evident that the long existed frustration in the citizens will erupt  somehow and somewhere more. In 2019, [bigger rallies](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-49057803) in Moscow ensured that Vladimir Putin’s power is shaken to its core. In March 2020, the Russian Federation imposed a nationwide lockdown amid Coronavirus scare. Contrary to the popular belief, this [didn’t stop people from protesting](https://www.dw.com/en/anti-moscow-protests-in-eastern-russia-erupt-for-fourth-weekend/a-54404055) in the famous Khabarovsk Kai in July 2020.

With the inclusion of China in the World Trade Organization in 2001, China has grown immensely over the years and is at par with the world economy such as the US, EU, and Japan. China is a serious threat to NATO’s global impact. If China outgrows the EU economy, the US influence in NATO will fall dramatically. Despite its growing economy, the frustration among people is ample to fight against the autocratic government. The [violent protests](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-49317695) in Hong Kong erupted during the 70 year celebrations of Communist Party rule during October 2019. The reason was that after being handed over to China by Britain, Hong Kong wants to see itself as a republic and sovereign state in future. Hong Kong protesters then fled to Taiwan to continue their protests.

## Belarus: One of few countries that didn’t adopt lockdown

After influencing Ukraine against the Russian Federation, Belarus is another country that could possibly weaken Putin’s power in the eastern Europe. Poland, a NATO member, constantly tries to disrupt peace in Belarus. It has done in the past with its news media. The recent event in the capital Minsk is yet another example of it. With the rising coronavirus scare and other countries adopting lockdowns to counter it, citizens of Belarus felt deceived at the hands of Alexander Lukashenko. Lukashenko never imposed a nationwide lockdown knowing the implications and ridiculed SARS-CoV-2 scare publicly. This was an opportunity for Poland, Lithuania, and Latvia to formulate, incite, and execute a [nationwide protest](https://www.euronews.com/2020/09/27/belarus-protests-how-did-we-get-here) in Belarus. Though I believe that Alexander Lukashenko must go, I don’t think Belarus has anyone competent enough to counter NATO.

The paranoia among different governments across the globe is unstoppable especially with the kind of recent published scientific research. But if you can understand world politics, you can decipher how and when we'll get rid of SARS-CoV-2. This is a fight between NATO vs CSTO as perceived by the bureaucrats sitting in the US and the SARS-CoV-2 will die its natural death when the US President Donald Trump will finally leave his place. In the upcoming elections, the SARS-CoV-2 scare is going to be a big issue in showcasing the mismanagement of the ruling government. Till then we just need to hold tight and follow the absurd laws adopted across the world.
