---
layout: post
title:  "Ukraine: India's role in the end game"
author: saurabh
categories: [Politics]
date:   2022-03-06 09:05:55 +0300
image:  'assets/images/photo-india.png'
tags: [Ukraine, Russia, NATO, US, India, Biden, Modi, Zelensky, Second Chechen War, Chechnya, BBC, CNN]
--- 
The Russian intervention in `Ukraine` is turning out to be ugly for both `Ukraine` and the west. The situation reminds us of the `Second Chechen War` when then Prime Minister Putin adopted the same technique. `Chechnya` is now part of the Russian Federation and the fear of losing `Ukraine` the same way is disheartening. The west has been pouring sanctions on the Russian Federation and its oligarchs but so far the situation has only escalated. Mr. Putin has also clarified that sanctions are to be treated as an act of war against the Russian Federation.

The west is going up a notch with sanctions and posturing. Is the western world going too far this time? I believe there's no turning back when you're already too far. The western sanctions might work for a while as the winters are far but by the time `Ukraine` will be lost. Will Mr. Putin then play the `gas` card to keep the western sanctions at bay? The west knows it too. The west knows the importance of sanctions and also understands when to relax it. The only way that Mr. Putin will not play the `gas` card in the winters is when the western sanctions are somewhat relaxed. So, will the west be able to relax those imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation before the winter season?

The west has always banked on an idea that passing the blame might save them in conflicts. The west needs to understand that unfortunately `India` is not a perfect scapegoat at this point in time as it has been in the past during the [pandemic](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2021-12-29/how-delta-variant-spread-in-india-deadly-errors-inaction-covid-crisis). Neither the west can prolong its sanctions till winters nor `the Russian Federation` wants to be cut-off from the world. India still plays an important role being a larger economy. So, what's the end game in this conflict? The west at least this time around needs to pursuade `India` to its side instead of sidelining it in the mainstream media. The reality is no one in India, with the right frame of mind, supports the Russian intervention or invasion in `Ukraine`. `The Russian Federation` is not a friend of `India` but only a strategic ally to keep check on `China` and `Pakistan`. To understand this further, we need to understand the geolocation of India. `Pakistan` is never a real threat to India but `People's Republic of China` is. The outcome of the `Ukrainian invasion` is a double-edged sword for `India`. It could either go in favor or against India. China will surely attack `Taiwan` and then `Arunachal Pradesh` if Russia succeeds in its plan. If `India` directly contradicts `the Russian Federation` in the UN, Mr. Putin won't guarantee to keep the notorious `China` at bay. The attack will be imminent.

The Russian Federation does rely upon India amid all the western sanctions for a trade. `India` has done it for the `UK` after brexit and should do it for the `Russian Federation` too. And that's the only `trump` card the west or India has. If Mr. Modi understands this and pursuades Mr. Putin to a ceasefire, it's a win for everyone. But, how Mr. Modi can pursuade a might like `the Russian Federation`? The way to do it is to talk Mr. Putin into an alternate invasion plan of only taking control of the Black Sea coastline and leave other areas for a possible ceasefire.

This is an open opportunity for all and the ceasefire might follow these events:

- `Ukraine` can go for a successful peace talk.
- Mr. `Zelensky` can remain a hero and avoid his assassination (not sure by whom: `CIA` or `Russia`).
- `Ukraine` will not become another `Chechnya` and can remain as an example for the west to lure other countries into NATO.
- `the Russian Federation` will avoid some sanctions and continue its might.
- `India` becomes a successful negotiator as against `France` and ahead of `Israel`.

**Disclaimer**: This article might be too optimistic and ahead of time.