---
layout: post
title:  "Why hate Belarus?"
author: saurabh
categories: [Politics]
date:   2023-09-04 09:05:55 +0300
image:  'assets/images/lukashenko.jpeg'
tags: [featured, Lukashenko, Alexander Lukashenko, Nobel, Olympics, BRICS, Putin, Europe, EU, Ukraine, Russia, NATO, US, India, Biden, social media, Zelensky]
---

Ever since the Russia-Ukraine conflict started, the west has tried different tactics to sabotage The Russian Federation. While I have no complaints regarding that, I certainly do have complaints regarding the boycott of Belarusian athletes, financial sanctions on Belarus, and growing hatred to push Russia and Belarus under the same umbrella. On a personal level, I adore Belarus as it is one of the cleanest countries in the world. In fact, the capital city of Minsk was ranked number three along with Tokyo and Singapore till 2018-2019. But, you won’t see these stats now in any media outlet.

And, it’s not limited to this. There are in fact a number of incidents where Belarus has been kept out of the international forums. In June 2023, Belarus was not selected for the UN security council and lost to Slovenia. You see, the UN security council decides when and how much to impose sanctions on a country. [Surprisingly, Russia is a member of that along with the US, Britain, China, and France.](https://www.reuters.com/world/five-nations-elected-un-security-council-belarus-denied-2023-06-06/) So, who vetoed Belarus is a big question. [In August 2023, Belarus was not selected to be a member of even BRICS.](https://www.aa.com.tr/en/europe/russia-says-will-prioritize-candidacies-of-kazakhstan-belarus-amid-brics-expansion/2976122) Belarus officially applied to be a member in May 2023 but was again not prioritized to be inducted. [The latest one of course denies its participation for representation in the Nobel prize consortium.](https://www.reuters.com/world/nobel-foundation-cancels-russia-belarus-iran-invites-annual-prize-awards-2023-09-02/) In the Olympics and other world sports too, the Belarusian athletes are facing the heat. So, what really is pushing Belarus out of everything? Is it due to its involvement in the Russia-Ukraine conflict? The answer is No. In fact, the real and simple answer is the Belarusian President, Alexander Lukashenko.

The western countries don’t want to deal with him at all. No EU membership till he is in power. The irony is that, the least he could have done is to push a candidate as a leader and control him from behind. That would have sufficed egos of many including the west. Every modern democracy does this and we all are forced to love them. But, to be honest, his views about modern themes and values are debatable. He is no hero or a leader. He was, indeed, one after the soviet union collapse when he rose to power. After the collapse, the countries that were scattered like Belarus were full of street level crime and were highly unsafe. He not only stabilized the situation but also built infrastructure with the support of Russia. But, what he forgot to do was to modernize his own outlook and country. His shortcomings are more visible when exercise his control over the media and people's voices. I know none of the isms are perfect be it socialism, communism, or capitalism. But, Lukashenko’s stubbornness and hate towards capitalism only did harm to the country. State owned capitalism is not communism or socialism. He never built industries for modernity but only confined development around agriculture. The only good thing that he did in recent years is to build a Hi-Tech city in Minsk to support the growth of IT startups. That too never picked up pace due to his constant interference and badgering. Most of the startups relocated to elsewhere in Europe.

The point that I am trying to make is that Belarus is under the tight grip of Vladimir Putin and Lukashenko knows it too. He had tried to side with the west initially but the west rejected him then and now too. So he is forced to side with Putin only. Whether a 2020 like coup will help the west to oust Lukashenko is questionable now especially when Belarus is hosting Russian nuclear weapons and has extended his army towards western borders.

The crux of the matter is that Lukashenko has tried to fight with both Putin and the west. But, the western hatred and sanctions are only pushing Belarus closer to Russia. It is not doing anything good for the west or Ukraine. The only harm it is doing is to punish the average Belarusian citizens who have no control over this situation. The only outcome I see from all these sanctions, boycotts, and hatred is pushing a country and its people towards a dim future and letting them suffer. If that is the ultimate aim of the west, then I’m sure the west will succeed at some point.